Monitoring
==========

Goal of monitoring is to provide the functionality of gathering data
during a test run, this gathering will happen in background.

Each type of data is gathered by a single monitor. Output of the monitor
is Comma Separated File containing data.

There are 2 types of monitors:

* time-based - monitors that are collecting data based on a defined
period of time
* event-based - monitors collecting data when an event happens

Monitors’ behaviour is controlled by properties stored in properties
files (can be one file per operator or one file for multiple monitors).
All monitors need to have following properties set:

Property name

Accepted values

Description

enabled

true|false|1|0

Determines if monitor should be enabled during test run

collectionTime

number_As_Seconds,e.g. 2 | eventName

Determines when monitor should collect data (on event specify by name or
every 2 seconds)

threshold

threshold configuration

Determines value and action if threshold is crossed. Please refer to
link:thresholds.html[threshold subsection] for details

Most monitors have other properties that can be specified in properties
files. Please find them in sub-page for particular monitor.

Output csv file of a monitor is put in ``monitoroutput'' directory of
JCAT log directory. Moreover it is linked to JCAT report and available
after run in
section image:https://cifwk-oss.lmera.ericsson.se/jenkins/job/TAF_Utils/HTML_Report/arrow_right_small.jpg[image]Show
data from monitors 

The initial trending is put on JCAT HTML report in a form of graph.
Every graph links to a CSV file containing detailed data (just click on
the graph) and is ready for deep analysis. More about charting can be
found in link:charting-monitored-data.html[charting subsection].

Monitors are started and shutdown automatically via TestNG
ExecutionListener mechanism:

* before any of suits starts, the enabled monitors are started
* after all of the suits ends (regardless of test execution result) 

It is also possible to start and stop all monitors programmatically
using static methods AbstractMonitor.startMonitors() and
AbstractMonitor.stopMonitors().

Also for convenience, the methods AbstractMonitor.getMonitors()
and AbstractMonitor.getStartedMonitors() are provided statically for a
programmatic way of controlling monitor behaviour.

Currently available monitors:

Name

Description

Status

link:os-memory-monitor.html[mem]

Monitor to fetch data about OS and process level memory information

released

link:as-instrumentation-monitor.html[asmbean]

Monitor to fetch data about MBeans from JBoss

released

link:tool-monitor.html[tool]

Monitor to log data about actions happening on tools

released

cpu

Monitor to fetch data about OS and process level CPU usage

released

net

Monitor to fetch data about current network load between the machine
running the test and the SUT

released

link:as-log-monitor.html[aslogmon]

Monitor to fetch data from AS log files

available in next release

link:os-log-monitor.html[oslogmon]

Monitor to fetch data from specified OS log files

available in next release

db

Monitor to fetch instrumentation data from RDBMS

planned with synchronization of Data Persistence team

security

Monitor to log data about potential security breaches

planned within UI epic

usability

Monitor to log data about potential UI discrepancies from usability
guidance

planned within UI epic

 

 
